=== PRIME ===
The First Hour
Personal Ordinariate of the Chair of Saint Peter

V: + O God, make speed to save us.
R: O Lord, make haste to help us.

V: Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost;
R: As it was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.

Alleluia. (In Lent: Praise be to thee, O Lord, King of eternal glory.)

=== HYMN: JAM LUCIS ORTO SIDERE ===

Now that the daylight fills the sky,
We lift our hearts to God on high,
That he, in all we do or say,
Would keep us free from harm today.

Would guard our hearts and tongues from strife;
From anger's din would hide our life;
From all ill sights would turn our eyes;
Would close our ears from vanities;

Would keep our inmost conscience pure;
Our souls from folly would secure;
Would bid us check the pride of sense
With due and holy abstinence.

So we, when this new day is gone,
And night in turn is drawing on,
With conscience by the world unstained,
Shall praise his Name for victory gained.

All praise to God the Father be,
All praise, eternal Son, to thee,
Whom with the Spirit we adore,
For ever and for evermore. Amen.

=== THE PSALMODY ===

Antiphon: Praise the Lord, O my soul: and forget not all his benefits.

(Psalm 54: Deus, in nomine)

Save me, O God, for thy Name's sake :
and avenge me in thy strength.
Hear my prayer, O God :
and hearken unto the words of my mouth.
For strangers are risen up against me :
and tyrants, which have not God before their eyes, seek after my soul.
Behold, God is my helper :
the Lord is with them that uphold my soul.
He shall reward evil unto mine enemies :
destroy thou them in thy truth.
An offering of a free heart will I give thee, and praise thy Name, O Lord :
because it is so comfortable.
For he hath delivered me out of all my trouble :
and mine eye hath seen his desire upon mine enemies.

Glory be to the Father, and to the Son :
and to the Holy Ghost;
As it was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall be :
world without end. Amen.

(Psalm 119:1-16: Beati immaculati & In quo corriget)

Blessed are those that are undefiled in the way :
and walk in the law of the Lord.
Blessed are they that keep his testimonies :
and seek him with their whole heart;
Even they that do no wickedness :
and walk in his ways.
Thou hast charged :
that we shall diligently keep thy commandments.
O that my ways were made so direct :
that I might keep thy statutes!
So shall I not be confounded :
while I have respect unto all thy commandments.
I will thank thee with an unfeigned heart :
when I shall have learned the judgements of thy righteousness.
I will keep thy ceremonies :
O forsake me not utterly.

Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way :
even by ruling himself after thy word.
With my whole heart have I sought thee :
O let me not go astray from thy commandments.
Thy words have I hid within my heart :
that I should not sin against thee.
Blessed art thou, O Lord :
O teach me thy statutes.
With my lips have I been telling :
of all the judgements of thy mouth.
I have had as great delight in the way of thy testimonies :
as in all manner of riches.
I will talk of thy commandments :
and have respect unto thy ways.
My delight shall be in thy statutes :
and I will not forget thy word.

Glory be to the Father, and to the Son :
and to the Holy Ghost;
As it was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall be :
world without end. Amen.

Antiphon: Praise the Lord, O my soul: and forget not all his benefits.

=== THE LITTLE CHAPTER ===
(1 Timothy 1:17)

Now unto the King eternal, immortal, invisible, the only wise God, be honour and glory for ever and ever. Amen.
R: Thanks be to God.

=== SHORT RESPONSORY ===

V: O Christ, Son of the living God, have mercy upon us.
R: O Christ, Son of the living God, have mercy upon us.
V: Thou that sittest at the right hand of the Father.
R: Have mercy upon us.
V: Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost.
R: O Christ, Son of the living God, have mercy upon us.
V: O Christ, arise, help us.
R: And deliver us for thy Name's sake.

=== THE PRECES ===

V: The Lord be with you.
R: And with thy spirit.

¶ Let us pray.

Lord, have mercy upon us.
Christ, have mercy upon us.
Lord, have mercy upon us.

Our Father, who art in heaven,
Hallowed be thy Name.
Thy kingdom come.
Thy will be done,
On earth as it is in heaven.
Give us this day our daily bread.
And forgive us our trespasses,
As we forgive those who trespass against us.
And lead us not into temptation,
But deliver us from evil. Amen.

V: O Lord, hear our prayer.
R: And let our cry come unto thee.

=== COLLECT FOR PRIME ===

O Lord God Almighty, who hast brought us to the beginning of this day: Defend us in the same with thy mighty power; and grant that this day we fall into no sin, neither run into any kind of danger; but that all our doings, being ordered by thy governance, may be righteous in thy sight; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and reigneth with thee, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, ever one God, world without end. Amen.

V: The Lord be with you.
R: And with thy spirit.

V: Let us bless the Lord.
R: Thanks be to God.

¶ May the souls of the faithful departed, through the mercy of God, rest in peace.
R: Amen.
